Blazor overview updates 8.0 (#30353)
dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/blazor/index.md

> [!NOTE]
> For a Blazor quick start tutorial, see [Build your first Blazor app](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/learn/aspnet/blazor-tutorial/intro).

## Components

> Blazor apps are based on *components*. A component in Blazor is an element of UI, such as a page, dialog, or data entry form.

Reviewer: I agree that we don't need all of these details about components here that are covered in the Components topic, but I think we still want to say that Blazor apps are made up of components, say why Blazor components are useful (event driven, reusable, etc), and show at least one example of what a Blazor component looks like in code. Devs reading about Blazor for the first time will want to see what writing code in Blazor looks like. Maybe we show just a Counter component?

Author: I was leaning too far this way from your remarks on the issue ...

> ... less on how you use it. This doc could probably be a lot shorter and with fewer details that get covered in other docs.

I'll rework this back into the coverage here, shorter with just the `Counter` component.

## Build a full-stack web app with Blazor

> Blazor Web Apps provide a component-based architecture with server-side rendering and full client-side interactivity in a single project, where you can switch between server-side and client-side rendering modes and even mix them in the same page. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Blazor Web Apps provide a component-based architecture with server-side rendering and full client-side interactivity in a single solution, where you can switch between server-side and client-side rendering modes and even mix them in the same page. 
```

> When a Blazor Web App uses interactivity with server rendering, the server generates HTML in response to a request and sends it to the browser. The page loads fast because UI rendering is performed quickly on the server without the need to download a large JavaScript bundle or wait for the establishment of a [SignalR](xref:signalr/introduction) connection to the client.

Reviewer: This sounds like it's talking about static server rendering, but it also mentions "interactivity". 

Also, we shouldn't assume that the reader understands anything about interactive server rendering at this point (websockets, SignalR, etc.). Interactive server rendering is a unique Blazor capability that deserves its own paragraph, something like: "Blazor also supports interactive server rendering, where UI interactions are handled from the server over a real-time connection with the browser. Interactive server rendering enables a rich user experience without the need to create API endpoints to access server resources."

```suggestion
Blazor Web Apps can deliver UI to the browser fast by statically rendering HTML content from the server in response to requests.  The page loads fast because UI rendering is performed quickly on the server without the need to download a large JavaScript bundle. Blazor can also further improve the user experience with various progressive enhancements to server rendering, like enhanced navigation & form posts and streaming rendering of asynchronously generated content.
```

> *Streaming rendering* can improve the user experience with SSR when long-running asynchronous tasks are required to fully render a page. Initially, Blazor renders the entire page for the browser with placeholder content. The asynchronous operations execute on the server. After the operations are complete, the updated content is sent to the browser on the same response connection and patched into page. The benefit of this approach is that the main layout of the app renders as quickly as possible.

Reviewer: Diving deep into streaming rendering here feels like a bit too much detail. See my suggestion above for a way to mention streaming rendering as a progressive enhancement to static server rendering.

> Blazor Web Apps also support interactivity with client rendering that relies on a .NET runtime running on [WebAssembly](https://webassembly.org). WebAssembly is a compact bytecode format optimized for fast download and maximum execution speed. WebAssembly is an open web standard and supported in web browsers without plugins. WebAssembly works in all modern web browsers, including mobile browsers.
> 
> When running Blazor on WebAssembly, code can access the full functionality of the browser via JavaScript. .NET code runs in the browser's JavaScript sandbox with the protections that the sandbox provides against malicious actions on the client machine.

Reviewer: I think we don't need quite so much detail on WebAssembly - it's an established web technology at this point.

```suggestion
Blazor Web Apps also support interactivity with client rendering that relies on a .NET runtime built with [WebAssembly](https://webassembly.org) that you can download with your app. When running Blazor on WebAssembly, your .NET code can access the full functionality of the browser and interop with JavaScript. Your .NET code runs in the browser's security sandbox with the protections that the sandbox provides against malicious actions on the client machine.
```

> After rendering is complete, interactivity on the client can adopt either or both of the following techniques, even in the same page:

Reviewer: With the suggestions above that cover Blazor's support for server and WebAssembly based interactivity, I think we can drop this section and the following bullet points.

  * The assemblies and the [.NET runtime](/dotnet/framework/get-started/overview) are downloaded to the browser.
  * Blazor bootstraps the .NET runtime and configures the runtime to load the assemblies for the app. The Blazor WebAssembly runtime uses JavaScript interop to handle DOM manipulation and browser API calls.

> Blazor apps can entirely target running on WebAssembly in the browser without the involvement of a server. For a *standalone Blazor WebAssembly app*, assets are deployed as static files to a web server or service capable of serving static content to clients.

Reviewer: We could flesh this one out a bit more to highlight the offline PWA scenario:

```suggestion
Blazor apps can entirely target running on WebAssembly in the browser without the involvement of a server. For a *standalone Blazor WebAssembly app*, assets are deployed as static files to a web server or service capable of serving static content to clients. Once downloaded, standalone Blazor WebAssembly apps can be cached and executed offline as a Progressive Web App (PWA).
```

## Build a native client app with Blazor Hybrid

> *Blazor Hybrid* uses Blazor in a native client app with a blend of native and web technologies. Code runs natively in the .NET process and renders web UI to an embedded Web View control using a local interop channel. WebAssembly isn't used in Hybrid apps. Hybrid apps encompass the following technologies:

Reviewer: Can we also mention here that Blazor Hybrid enables building an app for the web and mobile & desktop platforms using the same Blazor components?

* [.NET Multi-platform App UI (.NET MAUI)](/dotnet/maui/what-is-maui): A cross-platform framework for creating native mobile and desktop apps with C# and XAML.
* [Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF)](/dotnet/desktop/wpf/overview/): A UI framework that is resolution-independent and uses a vector-based rendering engine, built to take advantage of modern graphics hardware. 

> * [Windows Forms](/dotnet/desktop/winforms/overview/): A UI framework that creates rich desktop client apps for Windows. The Windows Forms development platform supports a broad set of app development features, including controls, graphics, data binding, and user input.

Reviewer: These sibling bullet points make it look like .NET MAUI, WPF, and Win Forms are on equal footing, but really .NET MAUI is our recommended solution for building new native client apps. The Blazor Hybrid support for WPF & Win Forms is primarily for app modernization efforts.
